# 0x40: Timestamp signature

This type of signature is designed to prove the creation date of a signature.
It should be generated by a trusted entity called a _notary_.
However, it seems that it is not used and that GPG/PGP does not support it.

* See [timestamp (0x40) signatures? 1](https://lists.gnupg.org/pipermail/gnupg-devel/2002-March/018146.html)
* See [timestamp (0x40) signatures? 2](https://lists.gnupg.org/pipermail/gnupg-devel/2002-March/018146.html)

> As far as I can tell, nobody implements this.  I just tried feeding a
> 0x40 signature to PGP (6 and 7) and it just ignored it.  PGP 2 doesn't
> like it either (no surprise).

> I think it would be very good to clear this up in the next OpenPGP
> draft though.  A notary signature sounds very useful and if it was
> clear what it meant, then we could implement and use it :)

See [RFC 1991: 6.2.4 Miscellaneous fields](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1991.txt)

> The timestamp field (d2) is analogous to the date box next to a
> signature box on a form.  It represents a time which is typically
> close to the moment that the signature packet was created.  However,
> this is not a requirement.  Users may choose to date their signatures
> as they wish, just as they do now in handwritten signatures.
>
> If an application requires the creation of trusted timestamps on
> signatures, a detached signature certificate with an untrusted
> timestamp may be submitted to **a trusted timestamp notary service to
> sign the signature packet with another signature packet, creating a
> signature of a signature**.  The notary's signature's timestamp could
> be used as the trusted "legal" time of the original signature.


